---
layout: post
title: 
date: 2011-05-28 00:07
author: Michal Franc

comments: true
categories: []
tags: [archive]
---
<p align="justify">I started my adventure in <strong>Source Code Management</strong> systems with <strong>SVN</strong>. I was on my 3rd year at University and was quite impressed with it’s capabilities. Later on after hearing a lot of good things about <strong>Git</strong> and watching great presentation by Linus Torvalds, I persuaded myself to try it. This was a big move for me. I worked/learned on the MS stack so by moving to the <strong>GIT</strong> world I had to learn some Unix technology. I had problems with adoption : configuration problems , shift in thinking about repositories , branches , even something new like <strong>GitHub</strong> community. Lots of work and try and error learning but it was worth the time . Now&nbsp; , which is an irony , I have problems working with <strong>SVN</strong> at work Too much “git-ing” : ) . You just cant understand why something is in <strong>GIT</strong> and not in <strong>SVN</strong>. I m struggling now. Integration server is full of “build failures&nbsp; , caused by missing file in repository : D  <p>I m still working with <strong>GIT </strong>at home&nbsp; , and&nbsp; I m not changing it to other <strong>SCM</strong> unless it’s really necessary eg. in work.  <p>&nbsp; <p align="justify">Recently I encountered a problem with ignoring files. I wanted to ignore some files by extension type. Well I was not working at all. I had to spent some time to find the solution. <strong>StackOverflow</strong> came to the rescue. Those simple commands fixed my problem.  <p align="justify"><strong><font>1. <code>git rm -r --cached .</code></font></strong></p> <p><code><strong><font><font face="Helvetica">2. </font>git add .</font></strong></code></p> <p><code><strong><font><font face="Arial">3</font>.git commit –m </font></strong></code></p> <div align="justify"></div> <div align="justify"> <p><code><font face="Arial">This basically clears out the cache and “re-adds” files.</font></code></p> <p><code></code><code><font face="Arial">On a side note don’t be afraid with the <strong>git rm</strong> command , I have almost jumped off my chair when I saw whole thesis being deleted : )</font></code></p></div>
