Thank you for singing up. Trust me, you are gonna love it!

#### What to expect?

X lessons in your email box full of practical knowledge about starting up with the distributed systems deisng using microservices and .NET Core, Docker and other different cool technology of today.

We will go together through:

* Introduction to Microservices
* Your first .NET core based Microservice
* Adding Docker to the mix
* Building simple distributed system
* Deploying to the Cloud

In the future, I will add more:
* How to build scalable solutions?
* How to design Twitter and run it live?
* CQRS
* Weak vs Strong Consistency

#### Do I need to prepare anything?

Prepare a cozy nice room, some free time and probably a coffee (I love the black one without sugar). To be honest you don't need to prepare anything apart from dev machine. It's not like we are gonna code on paper.

Deployment to the cloud will require a AWS account. Most of the things you will be able to do using Free Tier.

All the tools presented here are free. Most of the stuff will be done from command line. Don't worry if that is not your 'comfort' zone. You will be fine. Actually that course might also be a great introduction to CLI, a powerful tool in the toolbelt of every developer.

#### Where is the catch? Why this course is for free?

I need your help. I am doing this to:

* learn, how to create online courses.
* get feedback from you, and this is really the most important aspect here, I need your feedback, at the end of the course there will be a poll
* I want to establish a relationship with you. Who knows maybe one day we might do some business together?

#### Course structure and timeline

* One emai per day
* 60 min lessons

Ok let's go, enjoy the ride - you will receive first email in 2 hours.
