Welcome to the first lesson.

Today we will start exploring the world of Microservices, and the best place to start is to talk about current hype and the rise and fall of Service Oriented Architecture.

#### Microservices Hype

Hype is real. Like with every new tech trend. It follows the same pattern - [Hype Cycle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hype_cycle).

It is driven by:

* early adopters - people who love to experiment and try new things
* consultants -  looking for new tech/ideas to learn and sell
* tooling companies - beting on new trend, building tools to fulfill future demand
* product companies - hoping on getting the competetive edge thanks to new tech
* many more

Every tech big or small had similar groups of supporters/adopters.

With Microservices, we are on the left side of the first peek. Expectations are high, tooling is missing. All of this is still waiting to be established by people like you and me. In order to do that early adopters need to share their experience. By starting the journey early you can take part in it and establish yourself as an expert. There was never a better time to start with Microservices and distributed computing.

#### Cloud + Big Data == Huge Hype Train

Why there is such a hype? 

Two reasons:

* Cloud
* Big Data

Cloud Computing was a hype (or maye still is) on its own. It has entrenched its position now. From humble begginings we are now slowly hitting 'Plateu of Productivity'. There are establised tools and a lot of knowledge shared around. Smaller hype cycles like serverless are also happening. On its own this move is generating a wave of changes. Cloud is a 'tech' and innovation enabler. It is slowly decreasing the cost of infrastracture and lets us automate processes that were costly in the past. This frees up resources for new opportunities and innovation.

Then enters Big Data with its marvelous promise of being the next big thing. Companies gather a lot of data and ... don't know what to do with it. Machine learning and deep learning, to the rescue. This field is still at the beggining with huge hype and exxpectations. We will see what will happen in the coming years.

Complexity of today's products increases and generates pressure for everyone to innovate and stay competetive on the market. All of this, puts a huge demand for building scalable and highly available distributed productcs.

We had the first glimpse of something like that with SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) but it was mostly in the enterprise sector. Microservices are the incremental evolution. A new paradigm shift, in the way we think about software architecture.

#### What happened to SOA?

You won't be surprised, when I mention that SOA long time ago seen a similar hype. Knowing a bit of its history will be usefull to understand Microservices drive now. Lot of ideas and principles that we take for granted now came first with SOA. SOA was like a first wave of democratizing Distributed Systems. Microservices are a 2nd one.

*Some SOA Context*

In the book "SOA in Practice", I have found information that SOA term was coined by Alexander Pasik (analyst at Gartner). This was before XML and WebServices. He created this term to distinguish new approach to build systems, hat was different to usual client/server approach. With SOA Pasik wanted to stress out that server side should be considered as more distributed with multiple servers (services) instead of one big monolithic server side app and a client calling it.

In 2000 Microsoft created WebServices and this has made the hype and expectation growing really high. It was WebServices that were supposed to bring SOA to the mainstream. It was a framework that was symplyifing a lot of work and establishing certain patterns to increase productivity.

Lots of Analysts and Companies started preaching SOA as the future of the Software Development and more vendors get on the hype train (IBM, Oracle, HP, SAP, SUN). Everyone wanted to monetize the hype.

"There was money to be made by explaining idea, and by selling new concepts and tools (or rebranded concept and tools)... the time was right ... companies were increasingly seeking to integrate their businesses"

*What was SOA?*

Quickly.

It was an answer to increasing complexity in the enterprise systems. It was supposed to bring the marvel of integrations and bring all the enterprise departements and their products together. There was a huge hype called 'B2B hype'. SOA was supposed to bring flexibility and reuse to business and enable quicker time to market by providing ability to quickly link different departments/products. It also was supposed to provide exposure of systems to external World. Back then API' first approach wasn non existient. No one really thought about exposing their systems to external consumers.

Soa was based on three principles:
* create services - that provide a single business capability
* loose coupling - as everything is a service you can decouple your projects more easilly
* ESB - enterprise service bus - piece of infrastracture that services talk to in order to comunicate with each other

*What happened to SOA?*

Nothing? Ok let me explain it. 

Biggest hype on SOA was around 2007. Try and compare both SOA and Microservices in Google Trends. You will notice that new hype is not even close to the level of SOA.  Even if the hype is now down and SOA was pronounced dead in 2009. Core principles of are still with us - orientation on services, reuse, service registry, lose coupling . Microservices are just a incremental improvement of those old ideas. 

As a marketing term SOA has died. But as a technological shift in the enginerering mindset it has layed a foundation for todays world and revolutions.

Original Software Oriented Architecture was not ready for adoption. It was mostly adopted by Waterfall Enterprise companies that tried to change the world with revolution instead of slowly evolving their systems. Revolution ment too much time spent, planning, preparing and building something without verification. Many companies build too complicated architectures and systems that didnt add any value, but needed maintnance. This cost halted progress and blocked a lot of competetive edge.

SOA as a marketing term was also hijacked by software vendros that sold 'bad' practices. Some companies didn't even need SOA to achieve their goals but due to big vendors, marketing and hype they have started the 'transformation' without even checking if they need it.

This has generate a 'stain' associated with this term and people moved on. But, like, it has just evolved to something new.

#### Ok then how are Microservice related?

For me, Microservices are the product of new generation of engineers. SOA always felt like more corporate, rigid, standarised way of building Software. It might be an overstatement and Udi will probably disagree, but when I think about SOA I see big corporation with complex systems and complicated architecture.

Microservices are like new cool kids on the block, full of energy passion and of course all is driven by Lean, Agile, XP. Rainbows, beatifull world and fun. All those kids are ignoring the black clouds on the horizions and risk associated with new way of live. More experienced engineer are looking at them from their towers smiling, knowing that what we are getting into is much more complicated than we think.

Uhh, well I don't want to sound too pesimistic but too many people tend to ignore what SOA has achieved and think that Microservices are better, nicer. It is not like that and our generation has still a lot to learn. There is a ton of books, resources and experience laying around from the days SOA. All of it will be usefull for the new world of distributed microservices. It would be a waste to just discard the past.j

One of the problems of current state is: No one really knows what is a Microservice. There is no formal definition, no standard. Back in the old days there were usually some wise guys meeting in their 'high towers' formulating RFC's that were definning a common ground (Its not like this was the perfect solution as a lot of 'standarization' was more about monetization of ideas under consultancy movements instead of working for greater good). At the moment no one bothered to do that. Or maybe they tried but their definition was not good enough.

Microservices is another step, there is a demand for such a architectural shift. Some companies already did it long time ago. Amazon was always service oriented with team owning their own sevices. Another examples is Netflix, but they are a special snowflake with their huge scale.

I think that the future will be fully distributed and we just need to embrace it. It is another step in evolution. One of the reasons is coming soon IOT revoluwiont and availability of mobile devices everywhere. Just like i started with microcontroller programming, then moved on to desktop, then awkwardly to web, now it is time to start learning about distribured systems. It will be worth it. This course is just the basic stuff.

#### Important

Based on SOA and current hype, we need to be carefull. It is not like Microservices are the silver bullet. This approach is only a tool bo solve a problem. Monolith is still viable option for many projects.

Also remember the first rule of distributed systems:

> The first rule of distributed systems is don’t distribute your system until you have an observable reason to

This is really important. Distributed systems are not silver bullets. This is a tool to achieve goals and move past obstacles. Those goals and obstacles are associated mostly with increaased scale that should also translate to increased revenue that is able to maintain increased maintnance costs associated with introduction of more complex distribguted systems. Oh well that was a long sentence.

That was probably the longest lesson in this course. But it was really important to create this common context we will share later in the course.

#### More links
https://www.axway.com/en/blog/2015/03/soa-still-not-dead-and-shouldn%E2%80%99t-be
http://broadcast.oreilly.com/2009/01/soa-is-dead-its-about-time.html
http://apsblog.burtongroup.com/2009/01/soa-is-dead-long-live-services.html
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/936400/if-soa-is-dead-whats-replacing-it
http://bravenewgeek.com/service-disoriented-architecture/


