#### Microservice

Ufff that was a lot of my mumbo jumbo talking. Let's move on to some concrete stuff. What is a Microservice?

WEll it is a service that is micro .. muahahahah ... isn't that simple? Hah well it isn't. Microservice is just a nice marketing name that catched on with people. Every technological shift has it. Look at docker and containers. There were poeple doing this thing long time ago but it wasn't called container. Now we have a nice name, demand and the business goes on.

For me Microservice is a tool, to build distributed systesm that it.

< image microservice is a tool >

Micro is a unfortuate part of the whole term, it points many people into incorrect direction (just like T in TDD, I am not gonna start this discussion here). We should forget about building huge multi feature wises monoliths and focus on build smaller components, services that can do 'one thing'. Defining one thing is difficult just like defining what is a unit in unit testing.

I like to approach 'one thing' as one functionality, one business requirement. Thats it. You have to remember that there are no strict rules. Microservices willbe completelty differnet for you. As per hype curve we are stll in the begginging. Estabilishg patterns and tooling.

It is slowly happening look at those links, people are establishing all of it at this very momemnt.

* < link to microservices io >
* < link to some APM tool >
* < link to book >

I started my career as a engineer who worked in monolithic layered applications - smaller shops, enterprise product, financial app. If you were 'lucky' you might have a opporutnity to work with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). Which is a similar approach 

There were even companies doing cloud and containers. Still it was expensive, democratized ( available to more people ) tooling was not there. You might ask why it was not there. Well i beleive in the market driven 'decisions' demand and supply. 10 years ago there werend that many apps that would require more complicated solutions. But today due to Data Science and tons of data. Not only gogole amazon or MS want to benefit from it. There are more companies wanting to increase their profits.

Microservices is just another step, there is a demand for such a architectural shift. Some companies already did it long time ago. Amazon was always service oriented with team owning their own sevices. Another examples is Netflix, but they are a special snowflake with their huge scale.

I think that the future will be fully distributed and we just need to embrace it. It is another step in evolution. One of the reasons is coming soon IOT revoluwiont and availability of mobile devices everywhere. Just like i started with microcontroller programming, then moved on to desktop, then awkwardly to web, now it is time to start learning about distribured systems. It will be worth it. This course is just the basic stuff.

< link to presentation about distributed systems taking over the world >
#### Yeah, so what about SOA?

For me, Microservices are the product of new generation of engineers. SOA always felt like more corporate, rigid, standarised way of building Software. It might be an overstatement and Udi will probably disagree, but when I think about SOA I see big corporation with complex systems and complicated architecture.

Microservices are like new cool kids on the block, full of energy passion and of course all is driven by Lean, Agile, XP. Rainbows, beatifull world and fun. All those kids are ignoring the black clouds on the horizions and risk associated with new way of live. More experienced engineer are looking at them from their towers smiling, knowing that what we are getting into is much more complicated than we think.

Uhh, well I don't want to sound too pesimistic but too many people tend to ignore what SOA has achieved and think that Microservices are better, nicer. It is not like that and we have lot to learn. There is a ton of books, resources and experience laying around SOA. All of it will be usefull for the new world of distributed microservices.

One of the problems of current state is: No one really knows what is a Microservice. There is no formal definition, no standard. Back in the old days we had a commitie of wise guys meeting somewhere and formulating RFC's that were definning a common ground. At the moment no one bothered to do that. Or maybe they tried but their definition was not good enough.

#### Important To Note

#### More links and stuff

